we're going to talk about kristen leo  we're going to talk about unnatural  vegan and we're going to talk about a  reasonably profound issue  that links the two  this video starts at the shallow end but  it gets deep and i'm asking you to put  up with the first minute or two i'm  asking you to trust me that together we  are gonna walk  from the shallow end to the deep end if  on route we do not together drown this  is how kristen leo  earns her money  oh  that looks like leather  that looks like  wool  kristen leo is someone who describes  herself  as vegan  and who earns her money  every day  buying and selling  leather  buying and selling  wool why not fur why aren't there fur  coats on here  what difference could there possibly be  between buying and selling leather boots  and buying and selling a fur coat from  a vegan perspective  the evil is the same even if one is more  ostentatious than the other even if one  makes you stand out in a crowd  and be noticed  more than the other i'm just a dumb  [ __ ] that doesn't know  pretty much anything about politics a  lot of people think that when i  criticize capitalism that automatically  means that i support communism and that  is not the case  just  the words themselves like communism  capitalism are very cringy and  embarrassing for me to say because i'm  i'm just a dumb [ __ ] that doesn't know  pretty much anything about politics  and i just like clothes and i want the  people that make these clothes to be  paid fairly and for those clothes to not  pollute the environment i don't want to  talk about  hypocrisy  i don't want to talk about  living with contradictions  between  what you practice  and what you preach  middle age life  makes hypocrites  of us all  most of you have jobs and schedules and  responsibilities that compel you  to do things that you would preach to  others  they should not do if they have a choice  in the matter if they have an  alternative if there's some better way  they can spend their time  or earn their living a lot of us have to  with all due humility except  this is what adult life entails even if  it is something as simple as owning a  car  as driving a car when perhaps  ecologically we wish there was a better  way for us to spend our time and earn  our living i don't want to talk about  hypocrisy i want to talk about  consequences  because these aren't just ordinary  people  when someone like unnatural vegan  makes excuses for using antidepressants  when someone like a natural vegan makes  excuses for using antidepressants  during  pregnancy  causing  harm to her own children causing  brain malformations  in her own children  when she normalizes that and  rationalizes that and promotes it  to her audience of many thousands of  people  i'm asking what are the consequences i'm  asking  how many lives have you ruined  how many people  have you killed  look at this look at this right here  prenatal ssri exposure  alters neonatal  [Music]  corticosteroid binding globulin  infant cortisol levels and emerging hpa  function  i don't really know what that means  you  most likely watching this video  do not really know what that means  [Music]  imagine if you were donating money for  some kind of  highly  scientifically literate youtuber  to read and evaluate this peer-reviewed  study  and then report to you the conclusions  i'm you know i'm basically a caveman  people i mean you know i read this out  of complete ignorance this is not my of  expertise conclusions prenatal ssri  exposure  affects the developing hpa system  by altering serum cbg levels in neonates  and infant  infant salivary cortisol levels  further research is warranted on the  long-term functional implications of the  effect of prenatal ssri exposure on  fetal hepatic cbg gene expression and  the developing hps you know what that  means you know what that means  i don't  oh this looks this looks legit no  you see the title this is the thing i  love about these types of articles the  title is long enough that it's like  you've read a whole book just in reading  of the title it's great exposure to  selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors  during pregnancy and risk of autism  spectrum spectrum disorder in children a  systematic review  and meta-analysis of observational  studies now imagine what a different  world would be living in  if the title said  taking antidepressants  during pregnancy  increases  [Music]  the risk  of your baby having autism  imagine if that were the title you can  even just read the fine print here uh  here on screen for the abstract and you  can figure out that that is that is what  this article is telling you is it true  i don't know not really not really my  field of expertise antidepressants and  pregnancy  continued evidence of harm  still no evidence of benefit  now this is a real interesting study to  take a look at and you can tell  this is published in a different kind of  journal  ethical human psychology and psychiatry  so this is a little bit easier for  people like you and i to uh interpret  dear viewer  and this is taking a different type of  approach the issue and saying look it's  not just the case that we need to take  seriously the threats to the mother's  health the impacts on the baby's health  we have to view this in the context of  the fact that the the science indicates  that the benefit  from taking antidepressants is either  very very little or absolutely nil time  magazine headline  taking antidepressants during pregnancy  may lead to fetal brain changes well you  know what that sounds a lot like those  peer-reviewed articles i was just uh  just looking at but kind of dumb down  and put into layman's terms there's a  growing and confusing group of studies  looking at the effect of antidepressants  during pregnancy  some research suggests that the drugs  are linked to an increased risk of  miscarriage while others focus on the  implications for the developing baby  including possible birth defects  and an increased risk of autism i don't  even know is this chiari 1 or chiari e  this is chiari and the roman numeral  this is not my field this is not what i  study not mary i'm interested in any way  maternal use i'm not running out of  sources i'm actually not using all the  sources i've got in this video because  i don't know that would be boring  maternal use of selective serotonin  reuptake inhibitors fetal growth and  risk of adverse birth outcomes ssris  just like cannabis and tobacco  negatively affected the growth of fetal  head  circumference does that sound like  something you'd want to you want to play  with  is this something you want to make  excuses for  swayze because you have  you've come on and you've said the most  laughable  shameful debunked pseudo-scientific  garbage that comes straight out of  psychiatric  advertising campaigns not science you're  still out here promoting the idea that  ssri drugs cure a chemical imbalance in  the brain  someone like  kristen leo  when she is actively promoting and  promulgating  a vegan lifestyle that is not vegan at  all  i'm not asking  about the hypocrisy i'm not asking  about the type of self-contradiction  she's drawn into  i don't want to think about this like an  equation on a chalkboard  i think there's a really meaningful  sense  in which this  kind  of demonstration  damages people  ruins people's lives  in the old days  parents number one concern  was that their children  would end up running with a bad crowd do  you remember that idiom  that your children would fall in  with a bad  group of friends that your children  would join a gang maybe  but maybe they just have a friend group  that normalizes drug use that normalizes  dropping out of school that normalizes  wasting all your time hanging out at  bars or nightclubs right the parent  used to be concerned about guiding the  child  to surround themselves with the right  kind of friend  there's a much more powerful kind of  influence on the internet today and it  doesn't just impact children  it impacts  middle-aged adults  it impacts the elderly  and i really want to raise the question  of what the consequences are for the  vegan movement and for the lives of  individuals  what are the consequences of people like  kristin leo an unnatural vegan  wielding this influence in the way that  they do  and my answer is in a word  it's bad  i'm just a dumb [ __ ] that doesn't know  pretty much anything about politics i  mean really people like to disrespect my  crew but the fact is that you know my  name and i don't know you